1.Weeks 1-2: Protocol Bridging and Flow Control:Target: SpaceWire (ECSS-E-ST-50-52C) to 

AXI4-Stream.
Terrestrial video pipelines rely on continuous backpressure via TREADY. In space payloads, you bridge directly to SpaceWire or SpaceFibre networks.

Task: Study the ECSS-E-ST-50-52C standard. Deep dive into the Link Management FSM, focusing on the strict transition states between ErrorReset, Connecting, and Run.

Deliverable: Write a synthesizable VHDL module bridging a native 8-bit SpaceWire receiver interface to a 32-bit AXI4-Stream master interface.

Architectural Constraint: Your bridge must handle credit-based flow control (FCT tokens) dynamically. Defend how you prevent FIFO overflow on the AXI side when a disconnect occurs mid-packet without losing the current Earth Observation (EO) frame boundary.

what I need to do: 
ECSS-E-ST-50-52C (SpaceWire)

Entities
    Entity Top
        SpaceWire (8-bit data, control bit, FCT signals)
        AXI4-Stream (ACLK,TDATA,TVALID,TREADY,TLAST)
        
    Entity Link management FSM
            3 states
                ErrorReset
                    Handles the reset and errorwait safety zones
                Connecting
                    handles the ready, started, and connecting handshake phases
                Run
                    is the final state where high-ratedata transfer actually happens
    The Data Packer Entity 
        Counter - should be a simple signal in data packer entity
            from 0 to 3 to keep track of the bytes
        8-bit to 32-bit Processor
            Glues 4 x 8-bits





Tripping points
    Clock Domain Crossing (CDC)

    Variable-Length Address

    SEU Mitigation


1. ErrorReset (The Phone is Hung Up)
What is happening: You are sitting in silence. Your phone is on the hook. You are not talking, and you are not listening.

Outputs:
rx_enable = '0' (The ear speaker is off—no data can enter).
link_active = '0' (You are not in a call).

How you leave: You get a command from the captain to start the link (link_start = '1'). This is like picking up the handset to dial. You immediately move to Connecting.


2. Connecting (The Phone is Ringing)
What is happening: You are dialing the number and shouting into the phone: "Hello? Hello? Is anyone there?" You are waiting to hear a voice on the other end.

Outputs:

rx_enable = '0' (Still off. You are only listening for a specific "Hello" greeting; you are not ready to stream real data yet).

link_active = '0'.

How you leave (Scenario A - Success): The other side answers and says, "Yes, I am here! Hello!" (got_handshake = '1'). You immediately move to Run.

How you leave (Scenario B - Failure): The line rings for too long and nobody answers, or you decide to hang up (link_start = '0'). You drop back to ErrorReset.

3. Run (The Conversation)
What is happening: The call is successfully connected! Now, and only now, you can start sharing valuable information (streaming your high-speed camera or audio data).

Outputs:

rx_enable = '1' (Turn the speaker and microphone on! Let the data flow into the FIFO).

link_active = '1' (Telemetry says: "We are actively talking!").

rx_enable <= '1';
link_active <= '1';
if link_error = '1' or link_start = '0' then
 we go to ErrorReset
 


How you leave: Suddenly, there is massive static on the line, or the physical cable gets cut (link_error = '1'), or you hang up (link_start = '0'). You immediately drop the call and slam the phone down, returning directly to ErrorReset to keep the line safe.

The Golden Rule of this FSM:
If state is NOT Run, then rx_enable MUST be '0'. This is how you guarantee that random noise on an unplugged or unstable cable never gets processed as real data.